[Music]
welcome to another episode of 7-minute
marketing with Pam my name is Pam dinner
I love sharing a little dose of b2b
digital content marketing and sales
enablement seven minutes at a time early
in December Victor a very good friend of
mine refer a potential client to me this
client is not my typical b2b technology
and the global enterprise clients it's a
midsize and a regional accounting firm
facing Northern California the founder
was able to grow his business through
events and referrals while they
recognized that digital marketing and
outreach is necessary to continue
growing they didn't know how to start
what I did first was to update their
website okay that was good then I did a
rebranding of their logo I didn't know
why they did that in that sequence but
okay that's fine during the rebranding
they hire marketing agencies to conduct
a complete audit and create a
comprehensive marketing plain well that
should be good after the plan is
execution it should be easy right
well it didn't go that well the agency
was not able to get traction during
execution since the content was needed
to come from subject matter experts like
partners and managers in addition
partners and managers were very very
busy their hours need to be billable so
they really didn't have a lot of time to
work on creating content such as blogs
white papers or whatnot and everything
seems to be last-minute so ultimately
the relationship between the agency and
accounting firm didn't work out Veta one
of the fringe partners asked me to
review their work and come up with a
plan to move things forward she made it
very clear that they don't want to
overhaul their website or change the
current logo it's okay to update and
optimize the website but my
recommendation should not include a
complete overhaul of the website okay
it's good to know why the client
what doesn't want to do I can work
around that after reviewing the plan
from another agency I tobita that the
plan is solid
they have many recommendations what I
suggested was that we focus on one to
two big initiatives in addition I told
her the plan is one piece of a puzzle
four major initiatives to work we need
to align plan processes rules and the
people together the failure to execute
properly had a lot to do with three
things number one lack of systematic
process to show who should do what and
when number two lack of tools to
automate the processes to make owners
and the managers job easy
number three lag of internal program
manager to her the subject matter expert
hats so I suggested that we should focus
on one big initiative instead since the
events and referrals are the core of
their marketing outreach that's
optimized improve on that why can we do
or automate before during and after the
event its training the most important
part Peter told me that they don't have
time to do prep before the event or
follow up after the event fine that's
trained the partners to understand the
process and delicate the preparation and
the follow-up to the internal program
manager again we need to have a process
then identify who does what and when in
advance in general I told her that they
need to know who should attend the
events at least three months in advance
if the partners want to delegate
research and a follow-up to the program
manager the person needs time to prepare
advanced planning is super critical if
we want to make this work another pain
point is content creation oh well that's
the pain point for everybody including
myself Peter told me that they
understand that the content is important
unfortunately the agency expected them
to write content but they just
didn't have the time I topi de that we
may not need partners to write content
how about doing interviews with them
instead having writers interview
partners and draft the content and have
partners review however partners needs
to commit to doing the reviews and
getting back to the writers in a timely
fashion we need to hold punters
accountable and punished have to meet
writers half wait
I told PETA that marketing is not really
sexy the execution is really about
processes and tools that use posts even
follow-up as an example we need to send
out an email to prospects 24 hours after
the event was over right to set up a
follow-up call if the prospects response
what should we do next if they don't
respond what should be our next steps
ask questions create a process flow that
everybody can follow for each step
identify who should do what and have
template and scripts available source
the tools wisely
make sure the tools are integrated it
sounds very easy but it's challenging
when you get down to the nitty gritty
details we had in-depth discussion on
the processes tools and a potential hire
then she asked me what I can do to help
her I can help her find a person to hire
I can also help her to set up the
processes and tools with templates I am
literally the goddess of templates the
program manager can work with me to
implement the processes and tools and
work closely with the partners and
managers this person needs to have
marketing background but must also be
able to write well and do program
management and that's very very
important so this person needs to have a
multi skill set and I actually have a
couple candidates in mind this type of
work is not what I usually do I tend to
focus on marketing strategy planing
messaging framework customer journeys
and even sales enablement however I do
enjoy being in the trenches to layout
processes and sourcing tools I learned
as much as
do from the planning work a marketing
plan is important but the processes
tools and people are even more critical
during an execution stage another
component is training and a
communications train people how to use
two tools and reinforce it over and over
again
I told Vida that we can build momentum
there will be some growing pain along
the way but we'll get there again send
me your marketing questions you know
where to reach me
if you like the podcast please leave
comments on iTunes keep hustling my
friends you've got this
[Music]